

# SuperMart Sales Prediction Using ML algorithms

Building a sales forecast is both an art and a science. Accurate sales forecasts keep leadership happy, your business healthy, and your sales team engaged. 

Because sales is the lifeline of any company structure, having a general understanding of what to expect in the future will help in making informed, intentional sales decisions.

**INTRODUCTION**

**PREDICTING SALES IN A SUPER MART USING ML**


Everyone knows, the basics of marketing are 4Ps: Product, Price, Promotion and Place. In the 21st century, one can master all this by just focusing on one thing i.e. DATA. The enormous amount of data which is being generated by the latest technologies employed in a superstore can enable one to take informed decisions in boosting their sales. Customer is the king and right use of this DATA can enable one to master the skill of customer retention and efficiently improve business operations.

Studies have shown that businesses that use a data-driven approach to make decisions are, on average, 6% more profitable than those that do not.
Majorly, analysis in the food industry is done for:
1.	Ordering of Supplies in a grocery store.
2.	Customer Segmentation.
3.	Inventory management
This helps in reducing the wastage as a large number of food items have a smaller shelf life and are season dependent.

**Process Followed:**
1.	Importing the dataset and necessary libraries.
2.	Performing EDA, Feature Engineering.
3.	Model Building using Linear Regression, Decision Tree Regressor, random Forest Regressor, XG Boost Regressor.
4.	Model with the highest Accuracy Score was used for carrying out prediction on Test Data.
